How websites work?
	client connected to network and network conencted to server.Client needs to connect to Server,Client has IP address and server also has IP addresses.

What is Server composed of?
	Compute: CPU
	Memory: RAM
	Storage: DATA
	Database: Store data in a structured way
	Network: Routers, switch, DNS Server

IT terminology
	Network: cables, routers and servers connected with each other
	Router: A networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks.They know ehre to send your packets on the internet!
	Switch: Takes a packet and send it to the correct server/client on your network.

Problems with traditional IT approach(keeping the data centre in home/office)
	Pay for the rent of data centre
	Pay for power supply, cooling, maintenance
	Adding and replacing hardware takes time
	Scaling is limited
	Hire 24/7 team support
	How to deal with disasters
	Can we externalize all this? Yes. Cloud

What is Cloud Computing?
	Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of comopute power, database storage, application, and other IT resources
	Through a cloud service platform with pay-as-you-go pricing
	You can provision exactly the right type and size of computing resources you need
	You can access as many resources as you need, almost instantly
	Simple way to access servers, storage, databases, and a set of application services
	Amazon Web Services owns and maintains the network-connected hardware required for these application services, while you provision and use what you need via a web application

we have office and now instead of having servers, we use CLOUD

The Deployment Models of the Cloud
	Private Cloud:
		Cloud Services used by a single organization, not exposed to the public.
		Complete control
		Security for sensitive application
		Meet specific business needs 
	Public Cloud:
		Cloud resources owned and operated by a third party cloud service provider delivered over the internet.
		Six Advantages of Cloud Computing.
	Hybrid Cloud:
		keep some servers on the premises and extend some capabilities to the cloud
		Control over sensitive assets in your private infrastructure
		flexibility and cost effectiveness of the public cloud.

The Five Characteristics of cloud computing
	On-demand self services:
		users can provision resources and use them without human interaction form the services provider
	Broad network access:
		Resources avaiable over the network and can bee accessed by diverse client platforms
	Multi-tenancy and resources pooling:
		Multiple customers can share the same infrastructure and applications with security and privacy
		Multiple customers are serviced from the same physical resources
	Rapid elasticity and scalability:
		Automatically and quickly acquire and dispose resources when needed
		Quicly and easily scale based on demand
	Measured services:
		Usage is measured, users pay correctly for what they have used

Six Advantages of Cloud Computing
	Trade capital expense(CAPEX) for operational expense(OPEX)
		Pay on-demand
		Reduced total cost of ownership(TCO) & Operatinal Expense(OPEX)
	Benefit from massive econimies of scale
		price are reduced as AWS is more efficient due to large scale
	Stop guessing Capacity
		Scale based on actual measured usage
	Increase speed and agility
	Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers
	Go global in minutes: Leverage the AWS global Infrastructure

Problems solved by the cloud
	Flexibility
	Cost-effectiveness
	scalability
	Elasticity
	High-Availability and Fault-tolerance
	Agility
	